MSc in Cyber Security Degree Examination 2018-9
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Malware and Other Malfeasance (MALF)
Open Individual Assessment

Issued: 30-11-2018, 12:00 noon
Submission due: 07-01-2019, 09:00 am
Feedback and Marks due: 01-02-2019, 12:00 noon 


All students should submit their answers through the electronic submission system: http://www.cs.york.ac.uk/student/assessment/submit/ by 09:00 am, 07-01-2019. An assessment that has been submitted after this deadline will be marked initially as if it had been handed in on time, but the Board of Examiners will normally apply a lateness penalty.

Your attention is drawn to the section about Academic Misconduct in your Departmental Handbook: https://www.cs.york.ac.uk/student/handbook/. 

Any queries on this assessment should be addressed by email: Dr Vasileios Vasilakis, vasileios.vasilakis@york.ac.uk. Answers that apply to all students will be posted on the VLE. No queries will be answered later than 2 weeks after hand-out. Please include 'MALF ASSESSMENT' in the subject line of any emails.

General Marking Criteria: 
In all the questions, the marks are awarded for the quality of your discussion and justification of your assumptions/choices/conclusions etc. 
You are expected to research your answers and to cite appropriate academic and/or other sources; it is not sufficient to use only the module notes.
Any code you develop should be documented to make it easy to understand.
Note the page limits for each question. Answers that go beyond the page limit will not be marked. 

General Guidance:
Each question has a specific page limit associated with it. Answers must not exceed the indicated number of sides of A4 in each case. Page limits do not include any covering page, figures, tables, the reference list, or the appendices with the developed code.
All references should be presented together at the end of your script. 
The IEEE format of citation and referencing must be used.
For each major reference (say, top 5 or so most used sources per question), a brief explanation must be included (within the References section) as to why you believe the reference is a good-quality and credible source. 
Appropriate use of visual aids is encouraged. Include relevant figure(s) or table(s) to help the marker understand the content.
The visual aids (e.g. figures, tables) must be closely relevant to the text and act as complementary material to make the material more reader-friendly. They must be of good quality and designed by the student (not simply copied from other sources).
Figures and tables must be appropriately explained and referenced within the text. 
Abbreviations should be defined at first mention and used consistently thereafter.

Learning Outcomes:
To develop and demonstrate your ability to:
Identify and analyse threats posed to current system security by malware.
Understand the practical feasibility of specific attacks and evaluate the range of sophistication in current attacks.
Identify and evaluate appropriate detection strategies.
Understand approaches to detecting software vulnerabilities.


Answer all the questions.



Question 1:	Steganography (25 Marks)
This question is concerned with steganography. You are free to use any code or other materials developed in practical sessions:
      i.   [15 Marks] Design and implement an image based steganographic system based on manipulation of the RGB values of pixels. Your application should take two parameters, a named text file and a named image file, and should embed the contents of the text file in the indicated image. You should also provide functionality that recovers the hidden message. You may use ideas from the literature (and elsewhere) but you must cite all sources (and indicate the extent to which you have drawn on ideas). Some degree of original thinking is expected.
    ii.    [10 Marks] Modification of an image by stego-embedding can be regarded as a degradation of the 'quality' of the original image. Identify two measures of such disruption that an analyst might seek to measure as part of steganalysis.  Implement these measures and report their values for the cover image and stego-image when Lena.png is the cover image and the hidden message is that given at verySecretTextFile.txt. Describe, but do not implement, an embedding scheme that is more difficult to detect given your two measures (i.e., produces less disruption). Give reasons why your new embedding scheme will be harder to detect.
Answers for this question should not exceed two sides of A4. Implementation code developed should be provided in a .zip file and as appendices to your script. Appendices do not count towards the page count. You can use any programming language. 
Specific Guidance
You will need to give concise but technically accurate and informative descriptions. You will not gain credit for simple assertion of opinion. You must justify what you state. You will need to read and appropriately cite available literature on the above topics to provide convincing answers.
 
Question 2: Celebrity Vulnerabilities (25 Marks)
Each year a small number of vulnerabilities are given names, in addition to normal designators such as those given by security companies, CVE numbers or MS patch identifiers. Two such names are ShellShock (a Bash vulnerability) and Stagefright (an Android vulnerability).
Some CVEs associated with Shellschock and Stagefright can be identified by keyword in the CVE database: https://cve.mitre.org/cve/cve.html
The history of such vulnerabilities tends to be widely reported in journalistic outlets (sometimes misreported) and attract informed commentary and archive information from involved security researchers and software maintainers. These histories should therefore provide insights into current disclosure practices, patch and attack windows, and the extent that naming a vulnerability is related to its practical importance.
You are required to review the two vulnerabilities named above (Shellshock and Stagefright) and for both of these report:
     i.   [5 Marks] How the vulnerability can be exploited. Provide specific examples.
    ii.   [10 Marks] The history of the vulnerability, including disclose, patching and live attacks that exploit the vulnerability.
   iii.    [10 Marks] Contrast the two vulnerabilities; in particular identify important differences and lessons for the defence of systems, and review the extent that CVSS scores reflect the actual potential for damage for these two vulnerabilities.
Answers for this question should not exceed two sides of A4.
Specific Guidance 
You must be careful to judge the quality of your sources, and cite them. It is not wrong to cite journalistic sources or web-based information, but if you do it must be to contrast this type of information with definitive sources rather than rely on it as a primary source.
Marks will be given for quality of objective analysis, not simply for repeating or rephrasing material found on the web.
If you wish you may divide your answers to parts (i) and (ii) into two separate sub-sections, one for each vulnerability.
 
Question 3: SNORT Analysis (50 Marks)
 
This question is concerned with the analysis of a SNORT alert.
 
The following Alert was generated by a SNORT IDS:
[**] [1:18761:3] SERVER-WEBAPP Majordomo2 http directory traversal attempt [**] [Classification: Web Application Attack] [Priority: 1] 12/23-13:45:50.892763 192.168.249.1:1396 -> 192.168.249.5:80 TCP TTL:64 TOS:0x0 ID:38297 IpLen:20 DgmLen:284 DF ***A**** Seq: 0x92A0291B  Ack: 0x8F98F4DC  Win: 0x1B00  TcpLen: 20 [Xref => http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=2011-0049][Xref => http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/46127]

In addition to this alert you have available (from the VLE):
         	the associated SNORT logfile:              	snort.log.1356270323
        	a SNORT rule file:                       	server-webapp.rules
 You are required to:
 i.     [10 marks] Explain the main components of this Alert and their function in providing an understanding of the security event.
ii.     [20 marks] Analyse and explain, with specific reference to the IDS rule and the packet that triggered the alert, what feature or features in the packet or data stream were recognised as indicating an attack.
iii.    [20 marks] Explain what may be achieved by exploiting this vulnerability, and the measures you would take to ensure that other servers are not exploitable in a similar way.
Answers for this question should not exceed three sides of A4. 
Specific Guidance
In part (i), the emphasis should be on explaining how the components of this alert assist with analysis of the event, few marks are available for merely listing and naming the elements of the alert.
Parts (ii) and (iii) should include citations from the literature that support your description of the vulnerability and its defence. In this case, valid citations include reputable collections of vulnerability data.

END OF PAPER
